---
parent: salary-allowances-2020
number: "59"
title: "Prohibition of Sexual Harassment of Women Employee at Work Place"
as_of: 2020-08-06
---
<div class="statute-body">
  <p class="block subsection">(1) No employee shall indulge in any act of sexual harassment of any women employee at the work place.</p>
  <p class="block subsection">(2) For the purpose of sub-regulation (1), sexual harassment shall mean unwelcome sexually determined behaviour, whether directly or by implication, including:—</p>
  <p class="block clause">(a) physical contact and advances;</p>
  <p class="block clause">(b) a demand or request for sexual favours;</p>
  <p class="block clause">(c) sexually coloured remarks;</p>
  <p class="block clause">(d) showing pornography; or</p>
  <p class="block clause">(e) any other unwelcome physical, verbal, or non-verbal conduct of a sexual nature.</p>
  <p class="block subsection">(3) Any complaint of violation of sub-regulation (1) shall be dealt by the Complaints Committee set up by the Authority, the composition of which shall be as per the provisions of the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013.</p>
  <p class="block subsection">(4) The Complaints Committee may evolve its own procedure for dealing with complaints received by it.</p>
  <p class="block subsection">(5) Without prejudice to the provisions contained in sub-regulation (4), where the Complaints Committee is of the opinion that the complaint is motivated or frivolous, it may close the complaint under intimation to the complainant and the Authority.</p>
  <p class="block subsection">(6) When the Complaints Committee is of the opinion that there are grounds for inquiring into the truth of any such complaint, it shall initiate an inquiry into the truth thereof, after recording the reasons therefor.</p>
  <p class="block subsection">(7) Any inquiry initiated by the Complaints Committee under sub-regulation (6) pursuant to any such complaint shall be deemed to be an inquiry within the meaning of regulation 61 and accordingly:</p>
  <p class="block clause">(i) the Complaints Committee shall be deemed to be an Inquiry Officer appointed with respect to such complaint and shall have all the powers, functions and duties of an inquiry officer as provided in that regulation; भाग III खण्ड भारत का रािहत्र : असाधारण 41</p>
  <p class="block subclause">(ii) the proceedings shall be held, as far as may be, in accordance with that regulation, subject to the following modifications, namely:—</p>
  <p class="block clause">(a) that the charges shall be framed and communicated to the employee by the Complaints Committee (instead of the Disciplinary Authority) under sub-regulation (3) thereof; and</p>
  <p class="block clause">(b) the written statement of defence of the employee shall be sent to the Complaints Committee (instead of to the Disciplinary Authority).</p>
  <p class="block subclause">(iii) the findings of the Complaints Committee shall be in the form of a report, which complies with the requirements of sub-regulation (9) of regulation 61 and such report shall be deemed to be an inquiry report for the purposes of these regulations.</p>
  <p class="block subsection">(8) Nothing contained in this regulation shall be construed to prejudice the powers of the Complaints Committee to provide counselling or other support service.</p>
</div>
