---
parent: salary-allowances-2020
number: "72"
title: "Determination of service by notice"
as_of: 2020-08-06
---
<div class="statute-body">
  <p class="block subsection">(1) An employee shall not leave or discontinue his service in the Authority without first giving notice to the Competent Authority, in writing of his intention to leave or discontinue the service.</p>
  <p class="block subsection">(2) The period of notice required shall be -</p>
  <p class="block clause">(a) In the case of employees holding the post on regular basis, three months;</p>
  <p class="block clause">(b) In the case of employees holding the post on probation, one month; Provided the Competent Authority may waive the period of notice required under this sub-regulation for the reasons to be recorded in writing. Provided further the employee shall not be entitled to set off any leave earned and not availed of by him against the period of such notice.</p>
  <p class="block subsection">(3) In the case of breach by an employee of the provisions of the sub-regulation (2), he shall be liable to pay to the Authority as compensation, a sum equal to his substantive pay for the period of notice required of him:</p>
  <p class="block proviso">Provided that the payment of such compensation may be waived by the Competent Authority, at his discretion. भाग III खण्ड भारत का रािहत्र : असाधारण 49</p>
  <p class="block subsection">(4) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-regulation (1), the resignation of an employee shall not be effective, unless it is accepted by the Competent Authority. The Competent Authority may refuse to accept a resignation:</p>
  <p class="block clause">(a) If disciplinary proceedings have been instituted against or are proposed to be instituted against the employee;</p>
  <p class="block clause">(b) If the employee is under an obligation to serve the Authority for a specified period which has not yet expired;</p>
  <p class="block clause">(c) The employee owes the Authority any sums of money; or</p>
  <p class="block clause">(d) For any other sufficient ground to be recorded in writing. Explanation 1.‒ Disciplinary proceedings shall be deemed to be instituted against an employee for the purposes of this sub-regulation, if he has been placed under suspension under these regulations or any notice has been issued to him asking him to show cause why disciplinary proceedings should not be instituted against him or any charge-sheet has been issued to him under these regulations and will be deemed to be pending till final orders are passed by the Disciplinary Authority. Explanation 2.‒ The expression “month” used in this regulation shall be reckoned according to the English calendar and shall commence from the day following that on which notice is given by the employee. Explanation 3.‒ A notice given by an employee under sub-regulation (1) above, shall be deemed to be proper only if he remains on duty during the period of the notice.</p>
</div>
