---
parent: transaction-of-business-2016
number: "7"
title: "Agenda"
as_of: 2016-09-12
---
<div class="statute-body">
  <p class="block subsection">(1) The Chief Executive Officer shall be responsible for preparation of the agenda for each meeting of the Authority and circulation thereof to all the Members of the Authority at least a period of seven days before the date of each meeting:</p>
  <p class="block proviso">Provided that the Chief Executive Officer shall prepare the agenda of meeting in consultation with the Chairperson:</p>
  <p class="block proviso">Provided further that Chief Executive Officer may, in consultation with the Chairperson, amend or delete or add new item in the Agenda of business subsequent to its issue.</p>
  <p class="block subsection">(2) Any business not included in the agenda shall not be transacted at a meeting of the Authority except with the permission of the Chairperson or other Member presiding over the meeting.</p>
  <p class="block subsection">(3) With the permission of the Chairperson or other Member presiding over the meeting, urgent questions may be added to the Agenda at any time before the conclusion of the meeting, or any item on the Agenda may be deleted or carried over to a subsequent meeting. 8. Decision of meetings of the Authority–</p>
  <p class="block subsection">(1) If a Member has an interest in any item of business to be transacted at a meeting, he shall not participate or vote on such item and in such case, the decision on such item shall be taken by majority of the votes of other Members attending the meeting.</p>
  <p class="block subsection">(2) The Chairperson or the other Member presiding over the meeting shall endeavour at all times to arrive at decisions or recommendations through a consensus among Members and voting shall be resorted to if attempts to arrive at a consensus fail. In the event of equality of votes, the Chairperson, or, in his absence, the presiding Member, shall have a casting vote.</p>
  <p class="block subsection">(3) Votes on every item of business to be transacted at a meeting of the Authority shall be taken by a show of hands.</p>
  <p class="block subsection">(4) All decisions of the Authority shall be signed by the Member-Secretary of the Authority.</p>
  <p class="block subsection">(5) Decisions taken at every meeting of the Authority shall be published on the website of Authority unless the Chairperson determines otherwise on grounds of ensuring confidentiality.</p>
</div>
