---
parent: enrolment-and-update-2016
number: "23"
title: "Empanelment of Enrolling Agencies"
chapter: "V — Appointment Of Registrars, Enrolling Agencies And Other Service"
as_of: 2016-09-12
---
<div class="statute-body">
  <p class="block subsection">(1) The Authority shall empanel the enrolling agencies through an open Request for Empanelment (RFE) process and the eligibility, terms and conditions of the empanelment shall be notified by the Authority from time to time.</p>
  <p class="block subsection">(2) The interested agencies may apply for empanelment by fulfilling the eligibility and other technical and financial criteria of the RFE.</p>
  <p class="block subsection">(3) The Authority shall evaluate the applications of agencies and empanel the eligible agencies as enrolling agencies after completing the requirements of the RFE.</p>
  <p class="block subsection">(4) The Authority shall provide an Enrolling Agency Code using which the Registrar can onboard an empaneled enrolling agency to the CIDR.</p>
  <p class="block subsection">(5) The Authority may also permit Registrars to engage other agencies as enrolling agencies after following a suitable process for screening and engaging such agencies, as may be specified by the Authority for this purpose.</p>
  <p class="block subsection">(6) The enrolling agency shall be responsible for field level execution and audit. The enrolling agency shall allow the Authority reasonable access to the premises occupied by it or by any other person on its behalf and also extend reasonable facility for examining any books, records, documents and computer data in the possession of enrolling agency or any other person on their behalf and also provide copies of the document or other materials which, in the opinion of the Authority are relevant for the purpose of audit.</p>
  <p class="block subsection">(7) The enrolling agencies shall not use the information collected during enrolment for any purpose other than uploading information to the CIDR.</p>
  <p class="block subsection">(8) Enrolling agencies shall ensure that any agency and/ or person employed or appointed by them to conduct the enrolment and update operations is fit and proper and otherwise qualified to act, in the capacity so employed or appointed including having relevant professional training or experience.</p>
  <p class="block subsection">(9) The enrolling agencies shall at all times abide by the Code of Conduct for service providers as specified in Schedule V of these regulations.</p>
  <p class="block subsection">(10) The enrolling agencies shall adhere to the various process, policies and guidelines, checklists, forms and templates issued by the Authority from time to time.</p>
  <p class="block subsection">(11) The enrolling agencies empaneled by the Authority prior to establishment of the Authority under the Act shall be deemed to have been empaneled as enrolling agencies by the Authority under the Act.</p>
</div>
